wouldn't it be great if you can just
make small tweaks to your websites and
increase your seo traffic well there are
small tweaks that you can make that have
a big impact hey everyone i'm neil patel
and today i'm going to break down 10
title tag tweaks that'll boost your seo
traffic
now before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
a little bit about me i've co-founded an
ad agency called neil patel digital
where we help companies grow i've
co-founded quite a few software
companies as well work with a lot of
brands and i've seen a lot of data and
i've used this data to grow my seo
traffic because i've been able to
experiment and use data to my advantage
to gain the upper hand hence i get a lot
of traffic here's a screenshot of my
recent blog traffic it's quite a bit of
visitors but there's something that you
need to know about seo
it's all about marginal gains
one thing isn't going to get you
that silver bullet or give you that
silver bullet so you can just beat all
your competitors it's a lot of little
things that really add up and title tags
are one of those little things that
really adds up and i'm going to show you
how to tweak them to get the most amount
of traffic there was this british
cycling coach named dave brailsford and
when people wanted to win tournaments
like the tour de france he wouldn't just
tell him pedal faster eat more food
train harder because everyone really
does that he believed it's the little
things that give you the edge of your
competition for example if your seat's
more comfortable you're going to pedal
much longer if you
have a good night's sleep the day before
the tour de france you're going to do
much better than if you had a bad sleep
so he looks at things like your mattress
your shoes how comfortable they are your
pillow all these little things add up
and the same goes with your seo
now i'm going to break down why title
tags are super important and then i'm
going to show you 10 tweaks that you can
make with your title tag to really boost
your seo traffic so rand fishkin did an
experiment years and years ago where he
told people google best girls steak
click on the first result then click the
back button because then that tells
google hey we don't really like this
first result and then go click on the
serious each result and then stick
around and then within a matter of 70ish
minutes or so that serious each results
pretty much moved from number four to
number one and that all happened from
roughly four to five hundred
interactions that moved that result and
it wasn't just the cured best grilled
steak as you can see here it was also
for grilled steak that result moved up
higher
so why is that google's using user
metrics it's not just about how many
backlinks you have how good your site
code is if your copy is more appealing
people are going to click read through
and then go to your website
so how do you get more clicks at scale
because you may not have the twitter
following that i do or some of the other
people do but there still must be ways
and i'm actually going to break down 10
ways you can get more clicks through
your title tags and modify them without
having big twitter followers and telling
people hey go click on my results
this formula that i'm going to give you
is a long term solution to get those
clicks so that way you can rank higher
without building more links or
optimizing your code so let me break
down 10 hacks for you
the first title change that you can make
is start making your title tags
questions
questions tend to get 14.1 higher
click-through rate for example what is
seo question mark that's example of a
question mark that is a title and then
you can also get 8.6
higher click-through rate for titles
that are roughly 15 to 40 characters in
length now i wouldn't recommend doing 15
word title tags because that's not
enough room to put in keywords but you
can do
40 characters
once you start going 50 60 characters we
actually see less click-through rate
even though you can put in more keywords
we also see a 45 increase in
click-through rate when the exact query
is in the url so if your url is
neilpatel.com
what dash is dash seo and the keyword
that i'm googling is seo and the word
seo is in my url
you're going to be more likely to get
clicks
power words increase click through rate
by 13.9 percent power words are like
effortless um
you know uh simple
um
gorgeous anything that just describes
what
you're trying to get across and the more
power words that use or adjectives the
better off you're going to be
you also can see a 17.3 percent higher
click-through rate for titles that
contained emotions versus ones that did
not contain emotions so the more
emotions that you can convey the better
off you're going to do
and here's one of my favorite ones a 5.8
higher ctr if you haven't met a
description this is one of my favorite
ones because it's super simple a lot of
people don't add meta descriptions to
their page believe it or not i know that
sounds crazy but it's true so adding a
meta description means that google is
going to pull what you give them versus
them just pulling random words from your
page and making a meta description for
you
and titles with years tend to generate a
4.9 percent higher click-through rate
for example if i have an article that is
how to start a blog if i put how to
start a blog in 2025
you know assuming the year is 2025 then
it can generate more clicks versus if
the year's not there because it tells
people hey this is more relevant this is
more up-to-date
an evoking curiosity can increase your
click-through rate by roughly 5.9
for example the seven benefits of green
tea number six will shock you know it's
a little bit long but that gives you a
good idea of evoking curiosity because
you're like wait what is number six let
me see
titles that resemble education have 10.4
percent more clicks ex how to ride a
bike although that's probably not that
educational or like
how to rank number one on google how to
install a toilet those are all examples
of educational informational articles
and my last tip for you is look at the
people who are running ads and look at
their copy
because those people have to optimize
for quality score google wants them to
have high clicks because google makes
money on a cost per click so if their
titles suck they don't get tons of
clicks which doesn't make google as much
money so learn from them because that ad
copy can help you generate better titles
and once you make these changes you have
to give it roughly 30 days before you
really start seeing results so you have
to be patient now if you have any
questions on modifying your title text
you can get more clicks just leave a
comment below and i'll answer and help
you out if you enjoy the video like it
share it tell the people about it
thank you for watching and if you just
want me to do everything for you check
out my ad agency neil patel digital
where my team will just grow your
traffic for you